[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>EMERY SMITH: Hi.
I'm Emery Smith, and today
we have a very special guest
with us, David Adair.
David, thanks for
coming on the show.
>>DAVID ADAIR: Hello,
glad to be back again.
>>EMERY: We have a very
exciting topic today,
and that is the
topic of time travel.
And I was wondering, what's
your take on time travel?
>>ADAIR: The whole concept
of time travel is--
it's abstract at
best, because we don't
have it to work with every day.
It's not something
we're familiar with.
I've had people come up and
tell me they're scared to death
that people will mess
with time travel.
You know, they'll wake
up the next morning,
then somebody else is
president, you know,
married to somebody
else and all that.
I said, no, that's not how
this works, in time travel,
if you mess up, fortunately
for us, the general public,
the world, it's real personal.
It's only going to
screw up the person who
is directly interfacing
with the time travel.
So if they alter
their reality, they
altered their dimensional
space, it's only on them.
And you and I would just be--
>>EMERY: We're still here.
>>ADAIR: Yeah, we're still here.
>>EMERY: Here in the same
spot, the same space.
So that's maybe another
level that's created.
>>ADAIR: Yes.
Another branch on a tree.
But we will stay
right where we're
at on the-- in the tree trunk.
>>EMERY: And why do
you think that is?
Why-- why do you think
by creating other time
riffs that it doesn't
change anything for the time
that you left?
>>ADAIR: You've got to have a
point of reference, like space.
You've got to have a
point reference in time.
And so time travel, what
it will do is lock on you.
And when it locks on
you, things go bad.
It hits on you, dude.
[LAUGHS] I'm going to go home
to my present wife and family,
not, you know, good luck.
I wonder whatever
happened to Emery.
He's out there in the ether.
And that's OK.
That's why I said if people are
new working with time travel,
don't worry about it.
Don't have any fear of it.
Let them have at it.
They'll eventually,
by trial and by error,
they'll get some of
the things right.
>>EMERY: Now, there
have been a lot
of people from the inside
projects coming forward
that I've listened to.
And they have claimed that
they have time traveled.
>>ADAIR: OK.
Once again, I go
back to that position
where if I didn't put my hands
on it, if I hadn't touched it,
I haven't worked
with it, I really
don't want to say
about it, because it
would be speculating.
>>EMERY: How would it work if,
let's just say, hypothetically,
since they made these
claims, how would that work?
I would think you'd need
massive amounts of energy.
We talked about this earlier.
What did Doc say in
"Back to the Future"?
>>ADAIR: Yeah, Doc Brown
from "Back to the Future."
Where am I going to
get 10 gigawatts?
You know.
He got out with
a lightning bolt.
And from what I've
understood and heard
from others in that realm,
well, apparently lightning bolts
make mini black holes.
And then the black
holes, I think,
would be an integral part.
Because black holes, on
a nuts and bolts level,
would be the very thing that
would give you a wormhole.
The very-- your time tunnel
that you travel through.
So the matrix of that
logic makes sense to me.
But still, the power needs.
>>EMERY: Right.
How does that work?
That's like massive
amounts of power,
that you just push a button,
and all of a sudden here,
you have all this
amazing amount of energy.
>>ADAIR: Being that
I haven't built one,
or even are familiar with one.
But the reason so
much power is required
is that you're going to have
to override the containment
field of our reality.
You'll have to be able
to literally force
your way through that.
And that would require
like 10 nuclear power
plants wired together.
That's-- a gigawatt would be
what one nuclear power plant
would put out.
So if you need 10,
you've got 10 of them.
So, the power is
just extraordinarily
awesome in this type of work.
>>EMERY: It also could
be very dangerous,
that amount of power, without
the proper containment.
>>ADAIR: Yes.
And it can get away
from you, quick.
That's why there's
been concerns.
Which it's interesting.
Concern rhymes with CERN.
You ever notice that?
>>EMERY: Yes.
>>ADAIR: And I thought, boy,
that's an appropriate name,
or--
>>EMERY: What are
they doing over there?
>>ADAIR: Or slip of the
word, or slip of the lip.
But CERN could be
what our real science
is doing to knock on the door
of time travel and stuff.
I know what they're looking for.
They're looking for a thing
called the God Particle,
the creation of everything.
>>EMERY: Which is a
gateway, isn't it?
It's the opening.
Because it's the lowest
level of measurement.
>>ADAIR: Yes.
It's not the-- yes.
Because you go inside an atom,
and then inside the atom,
you'll find the neutron,
protons, electrons.
Go inside them, you'll
find the quarks.
Go inside the quarks, and
you'll find the strings.
And we haven't got
past the strings.
CERN is probably
pushing on the strings
to see what is next after
that, which I haven't
a clue what that would be.
>>EMERY: Do you see that in
our future of space travel?
I mean, wouldn't that
be the normal way?
Extraterrestrials,
now, they're claiming
they're interdimensional.
>>ADAIR: It-- well,
it would certainly
solve the problems of
distance, linear distance,
and time to get
there, and the age
of your lifespan as a species.
Time travel would be very handy.
>>EMERY: Do you know any
others, besides CERN,
that is experimenting with
this type of technology?
>>ADAIR: Yes.
CERN is probably the leading
group right now working
on such things.
But there are other cyclotrons,
not just CERN, on the planet.
There's two or three others.
>>EMERY: In Russia too, right?
>>ADAIR: Yes, Russia has one.
China probably even has one.
>>EMERY: What is a
cyclotron, for the audience?
>>ADAIR: It's a very--
think of what we did.
We buried a horse
track under the ground.
You know how a horse
track is round?
You've got lanes
in it and all that.
Well, that's pretty much,
in a very simplified way,
is what a cyclotron would be.
It's just a big, round
track with magnetic fields.
And we charge particles
through there.
And we spin them till they
get to the speed of light,
as fast as they can go.
And then at that point,
you have to decide what you
want to do in your experiment.
Do you want to do matter
annihilation, where
you have them hit head-on?
And you can do it on a
very controlled level.
Because you don't want to
be doing that, or otherwise
you end up with a
nuclear weapon going off.
>>EMERY: Could they create
anti-matter from this?
>>ADAIR: Absolutely.
You can study
anti-matter that way.
>>EMERY: It has a lot of things.
>>ADAIR: Dark matter.
All this stuff can be
researched through this process.
And it's fascinating science.
It really is.
And they are making
strides in those areas.
And I suspect if we're ever
going to hit time travel
or be aware of it, even the
fundamentals, foundation
to be formed, it's going to
be a group like CERN that's
going to find it for us.
And there's always been a
lot of fears and concerns
about thinking that they're
going to create a black hole,
and the whole world gets sucked
into the 16-mile diameter
thing.
So far, they haven't
had a problem yet.
[LAUGHS] Is it possible?
Yes, probable-- probably not.
But there is a
way to go about it
in a more sane approach, where
you don't make it that massive.
The size of CERN is 16.6 miles.
Why they make them so massive
is so they can have flexibility
to do different
projects and things.
But if you condense it
down, you can have it
where it will fit on
your kitchen table.
And that's a whole
different realm.
It's very contained,
very precise in what
you're using it for.
You don't have much options.
It's just for one thing.
>>EMERY: Now, the energy
that these devices
make, that you have
experience with,
and myself, I would
like to let the people
know that there's a
lot of positive things
that can come out
of these energies,
like transmutation and
teletransportation and things
like this.
We could easily clean up
the oceans, for instance.
And what's the science
behind that of transmutation,
of the energies that come
from these devices that
are capable of time travel?
>>ADAIR: See, the technology
that you're dealing with
is going to have spin-offs.
And the spin-offs
themselves are amazing.
To accomplish time
travel, you would
have to have a fully
functional transporter working.
So imagine having a
transporter available.
>>EMERY: And what
does a transporter do?
>>ADAIR: Well, the transporter
takes matter, breaks it down,
the energy, transfers it
from point A to point B,
reassembles it back
together, and there you are.
>>EMERY: Are these
computers that
are reassembling you,
your atomic structure?
>>ADAIR: It would have to be.
Because there's nothing
human that could--
the capacity, the numbers
are in the trillions.
And it's going to have to
move at the speed of light
to keep up with everything.
So yes.
These would be super computers.
And if you have that technology
already in your pocket,
to get to time travel, the
practical applications you just
said, all that filth and
trash we've got in the ocean.
Put your little markers
out there and outline it.
Then have the thing lock
onto it and transport it out
of there to--
I don't know, maybe where we
came from, a Tupperware planet.
>>EMERY: Oh, OK.
That's the other thing.
>>ADAIR: Or I would
transport it into the sun.
Just burn it up, and it's gone.
>>EMERY: Fantastic idea.
>>ADAIR: That would be
the easiest thing to do.
>>EMERY: You hear people
talk of multiverses.
How does time travel
fit into multiverses?
>>ADAIR: You know,
we're kind of locked on,
because we're linear
travel creatures.
We probably are so
alien to other worlds.
We linear travel.
We live chronologically,
on a timeline,
in consecutive numbers.
>>EMERY: Yeah, if we told
the people from Andromeda
that we have an
appointment at 6:00 PM,
what would they probably do?
Laugh at us?
>>ADAIR: Probably bust
out laughing, going,
nothing lives like that.
>>EMERY: And so let's explain
to them why that's a fun pun.
Because time really
does not exist.
It's this time
line that we have--
>>ADAIR: Exactly.
The reason we desire time travel
so much, it's a natural desire.
You want to be unstuck in time.
We're stuck in time.
We live day-to-day, minute by
minute, by minute, by minute.
And you want to get out of that.
Supposedly, other races,
they jump all over the place.
Because time is always there.
It's a constant.
And we've learned that from
Einstein and other things.
It is a constant.
Which means that you can
go back anywhere in time.
You can also go to
forward anywhere in time.
You don't have to stay just
at the present, like we do.
>>EMERY: Because
in this dimension,
we're limited to the
science of this dimension,
and so are those beings
that come here, I believe,
and craft that are working
here in this dimension.
But when you have something
come from another dimension,
I do believe it
changes in our view
and looks completely different,
maybe, a ball of light.
And the reason I bring this
up is the Bermuda Triangle.
What's going on out there?
Is this some
energetic anomaly that
has to do with
teletransportation and time
travel?
>>ADAIR: That
brings up the story
that I had with this fellow
I met [LAUGHS] in the Navy.
This is such a hoot.
I was called into Norfolk,
of [?COMNAVSURFLANT?]..
[?COMNAVSURFLANT?] is the
command of the entire Western
hemisphere Navy, US Navy.
And it's where all
the admirals are.
And an admiral called
me, and he said,
Adair, we've got a problem
with our satellites.
They go through the
Bermuda Triangle.
When they come out
the other side,
we've got to
reprogram immediately,
or they're going to spin off
out of orbit, because they've
lost their memory.
Something is coming out of
the bottom of the ocean,
emitting something,
we don't know.
And I'm listening to him, and I
said, let me get this straight.
You want me to go down and
fix the Bermuda Triangle?
Can I do that before
or after lunch?
Oh, god.
He looks up at
me, and I thought,
that was the wrong thing to say.
[LAUGHS] And he smiles.
He says, oh, you can have lunch.
And then go.
So I did.
I go back to command,
and I have lunch.
Get in a jet, and
fly to Key West.
So when I get down
to Key West, I
report to the
commander of the base.
He's sitting at his desk.
And I walk into his office.
And he tells me, oh, you're
here to work on the satellite
problem.
I said, oh yeah, yeah, like I--
that's what I'm going
to do, all right.
And I haven't got a
clue of what's going on.
And then there's this little
guy sitting on a couch over here
on the left.
And he's kind of a
meek, little shy fellow.
He has this really
cool looking goatee.
And he's got this Omega
Pipe by Dr. Garbo.
He's sitting there, and
he's looking up at me.
And the Admiral tells me,
oh, when you get through
with the satellites, you're
going to be working with him.
Well, my, who is him?
And he says, his
name is Dr. Hynek.
And I thought I
recognized his name,
but I've never really had
anything to do with any of it.
So I asked him.
I said, weren't you with a
thing called Project Blue Book?
And he goes, yes,
that's over with now.
This is later.
And I said, would you excuse me
and the commander for a minute?
So he goes out.
And I talk to the commander.
And I go, what, are
you assigning me
to a UFO hunter guy?
I said, I don't know
anything about this stuff.
You know, [?COMNAVSURFLANT?]
sent me down here to work
on satellites.
Now you're telling me I've
got to work with UFO people.
I said, man, what is going on?
And he said, well, calm down.
Just focus on the satellites.
I said, well, that helps.
So I-- but he did say, do you
understand the word order?
I thought, oh, god.
So I'm ordered to work
with this civilian.
So I go down the hall
with him, and we're
walking down the hall.
And I asked Allen,
I said, did you
notice that big globe sitting
in the office of the Commander?
He says, yes,
impressive, isn't it?
Yes, well, we're going to come
back and steal that tonight.
And Allen stopped, and he
looked at me, and he said,
I've heard about you.
[LAUGHS]
Well, god.
He said, apparently there must
be some truth to it because
of what you're just saying.
It's not as larceny
as you think, Allen.
Just bear with me.
So we go in a motor pool that
night, get a pickup truck,
throw a big old tire in the back
of the bed of the pickup truck.
We drive back to the
commander's office.
Guards are there.
I tell them, open the door.
I'm under orders.
I've got to work.
>>EMERY: [LAUGHS]
Oh my goodness.
>>ADAIR: They just opened
the doors, you know?
So we walk in there,
and I get out.
I'm on the other
side of the globe.
And he said, pull
that big pin to you.
And we did.
And the thing goes, boom.
>>EMERY: So that's where
they got the idea in "Close
Encounters of the Third Kind,"
when they ran up in the--
>>ADAIR: I didn't
know that at the time.
>>EMERY: --and then dropped
off and made the big thump.
And they rolled it out.
>>ADAIR: Yes, this is
way before that movie.
And Allen calls me
later and tells me,
hey, I put you in that
movie, "Close Encounters."
I'm a consultant to a
guy named Spielberg.
And I went, you did what?
You can't be telling
this kind of stuff.
He said, no, there's no names,
but you'll recognize it.
So--
>>EMERY: You did it.
You're responsible
for the globe fall.
>>ADAIR: I guess so.
When we pulled the globe,
it's a big old thing.
We're rolling it
down the hallway.
And I'm looking at the glass.
And Allen starts laughing,
and I asked what.
He said, we look like Felix
the Cat with a big ball.
And I thought, man,
this guy is a hoot.
So we go out, roll
this big old globe out
into the pickup truck, into the
tire, so it will stay steady.
We drive over to the
shop I had set up.
And we started in on this globe.
And I take a drill.
And I'm drilling really
small holes in this globe.
And Allen's saying we're
going to be throwing the--
>>EMERY: Your commander's
going to kick your butt.
>>ADAIR: Yeah.
He said, we're going to
Leavenworth for this.
I said, I'm a modeler.
I'll-- I'll patch
the holes, paint it.
You won't even know
I was ever there.
But I need to scale this globe.
Look at the scale.
And I told Allen,
measure the scale.
And he's really good
at this kind of stuff.
Measure the scale.
Give me three sticks, you know,
to the scale, is what I wanted.
And we put in three
legs into each corner
of the Bermuda Triangle.
Then I took a soda straw and
glued it to the three legs.
And then I took a welder's
rod, a really long one.
>>EMERY: A long one,
all the way through.
>>ADAIR: Yes, and I went
down through the soda straw,
so we have an apex point
over the Bermuda Triangle.
And right where it hit the
globe, I drilled a hole.
Sent a rod out through
the other side.
We turned the globe over.
And I'm tapping it really hard.
And you see a little--
I told Allen, feel for
a pucker in the globe.
And he goes, here's
another damaging hole,
over here, that I'm making.
And I drill a little hole there,
and the rod comes through.
And Allen was the
first to notice.
You know, I'm just trying
to get things set up.
And he stands there.
He breaks out his pipe.
Stroking his goatee.
David, look where
that rod came out at.
It's in the center
of the Devil's Oval
in the Sea of Japan.
>>EMERY: Oh my goodness.
>>ADAIR: It's got the same
exact problems that we
have in the Bermuda Triangle.
He said, look what you've done.
I said, yeah, I know.
I'm poking holes in this globe.
No, look, you--
the welder's rod,
it's through the
entire planet now,
and those two directly
line up with each other.
Well, Allen's jumping up
and down on all of this,
and I'm just--
I'm worried about satellites.
I'm not worried
about, you know, I
want to get the globe done and
back in place before morning.
So anyway, I get
the coordinates.
I picked up a phone, and
they patched me to NORAD.
And I'm telling NORAD
about the satellites,
giving them a
longitude and latitude.
Because what I have
now with welders
rod all the way through
the planet, way above here,
over the Bermuda
Triangle, out in space,
I find the-- the very
point that the satellites
hit that whatever it is.
And then Allen
asked me, he said,
what do you think that is?
I don't know, Allen, I'm
trying to fix satellites.
I said, you know, I'm a pilot.
I said, maybe it's a vortex.
It goes from planet to
planet, and they use
it like we do for navigation.
That's how they know
where to go on that planet
when they get there.
And Allen's sitting
there, going,
that's a really good thought.
Work on that, Allen.
So anyway, I call
in the coordinates.
So when the satellites
come in, all they
do is they just do a
little curve maneuver,
and they go around this
energy beam or whatever it is.
But it's real.
And so the satellites
come around
and go out the other side.
And I asked NORAD
how they're doing.
Perfect.
We don't have to
reprogram anything.
Problem solved.
Did the same thing when
we got to Sea of Japan.
Because they had to reprogram
it twice on every orbit.
And that became very
old, in doing it.
>>EMERY: The
satellites could still
see into the Bermuda Triangle
from different angles
is what you're saying.
>>ADAIR: Absolutely.
>>EMERY: So they're
stereo tactically
placed in different areas
to get down in there.
>>ADAIR: All they had to do
is change the angular momentum
of the platform in the
satellite to make adjustments
for that little
bump we went around,
and it worked just fine.
So I told Allen--
we took all the rods out.
I patched the globe, painted it.
Couldn't even tell
we were ever there.
Drove the globe back to
the commander's office.
Put it back in the same--
put the pins back in it,
and then we're done.
Allen was so relieved.
He thought, we're not going
to go to Leavenworth now.
And I said--
>>EMERY: He never found out?
>>ADAIR: No.
Commander never
knew we did a thing.
>>EMERY: Oh, goodness.
>>ADAIR: And so I
said, well, that's it,
Allen, I'm going home.
He goes, no.
You're going to be
working with me.
And I went, well, I solved
the satellite problem.
No, we've got a--
what is it you're
doing here, by the way?
What's your mission plan
or whatever you've got?
And it was a contract.
And what it was, I guess
because of his experience
with Blue Book and the
contacts that he had.
He had very high level contacts.
And I asked him, I
said, wait a minute.
They shut down
Project Blue Book,
but you're now
here with the Navy,
searching underwater UFOs.
He goes, yeah.
I thought they shut it all down.
He says, yeah.
They've got you thinking
right, don't they?
And I went, so
it's not shut down.
He says, no, still looking.
So the military's still
concerned about it.
>>EMERY: Was there a
name for that program?
>>ADAIR: No.
He-- it was, but he
had some kind of name,
but I was never privy to it.
Because it was all on
a need to know basis.
And I was happy not knowing.
I just wanted to get done.
But we went everywhere.
We went into the
swamps of Okefenokee.
>>EMERY: Okefenokee.
>>ADAIR: And we would
go out into the islands.
>>EMERY: What were
you looking for?
What were you studying there?
>>ADAIR: Well, we were
following up on reports.
People said they'd seen things
moving in the waters and stuff.
And we talked to them.
And there was a very disturbing
pattern that would show up.
That these people are--
some of them are so illiterate,
they can't even read and write.
But the things they
were telling us--
and there's no way in God's
name, 2,000 miles between them,
they even knew each other.
And they're telling you
the exact same thing,
describing it to a T.
>>EMERY: Which is?
>>ADAIR: You know,
underwater discs,
with a certain light
that would come and go.
Either they would
come in to the oceans,
or they would move and
come out and I thought,
this many people?
You know, you have Cajuns tell
you that, you got Islanders
telling you that.
>>EMERY: Have you seen any
of the UFOs that they have?
>>ADAIR: I didn't-- in all
the time we were there,
I didn't get to see
anything, except one time.
And it was-- it
was enough for me.
We came up on this island.
There was-- destroyers
were there, patrol boats.
This island is just blocked off.
All the way around.
There's no way you
can get near it.
>>EMERY: Where's the island?
>>ADAIR: It's in the Bermuda
Triangle area, but I can't--
I can't-- lot of the
stuff is still classified.
But we came out to this island.
And I'm looking, and I'm--
and Hynek just starts
laughing, right?
And he's looking at me,
and he says, he said,
the look on your face is
worth this whole project.
I said, what is it?
It-- you could see
like a Frisbee came in.
Skipped across the water.
Hits the beach.
Slides all the way
across the beach.
Plows into these palm trees,
and it's sitting there.
It's a disk.
And I'm going, what are
we going to do about this?
And he said, we're
going to go look at it.
So we pull up to it.
I'm only about maybe
100, 200 feet away.
>>EMERY: And what year was this?
I know it's--
>>ADAIR: Early '70s.
I'm pulling the
bow of the boat up.
And it's more of a skiff.
And Allen jumps off.
And he walks over, and
he meets with a crew
that's already there.
There's ship's
company with the disk.
And there's guards around it.
You know, they take precautions.
So, Allen was gone
for several hours.
And I'm getting a little bored.
And actually, it's not
comfortable sitting
on a small boat.
So I got off and
told my guy, I've
got to stretch my
legs on the sand.
So I tightened the
bow down, and I just
get off and walk on the sand.
And I just meander over
toward where the saucer is.
And it's about 100
feet in diameter,
so they're on the
other side of it.
So I walk up onto the
edge of it and grab hold.
I just had to get
my hands on it.
>>EMERY: What did it feel like?
>>ADAIR: It was
solid, like steel.
And it's always hot
in the Caribbean.
Sun shining straight down on it.
OK?
Now, my boat's painted
white, but it's still
warm to the touch.
This thing is actually cool to
the touch, in direct sunlight.
And I thought, wow,
how does it do that?
You know?
And I hit it with my
fist a couple of times,
see if I could get it to ring.
>>EMERY: No reverb or anything.
>>ADAIR: Yes, which I'm sure
Alan and everybody would
love that insight.
>>EMERY: So this is daytime.
You can actually see this.
This is in broad daylight.
>>ADAIR: Yes.
I mean, this is--
it's right there.
It's and-- But you've got
Navy cruisers out there
on the perimeter.
>>EMERY: Was the disk
just flat across,
or did it have that
classical hump in the middle?
>>ADAIR: No, there was
a hump in the middle.
>>EMERY: What color was it?
>>ADAIR: There was a hump
both at the top and bottom.
And they looked
like a sizable area.
>>EMERY: Was there damage?
Did you see any
damage to the hull?
>>ADAIR: I didn't
see any damage.
The thing looked like
it just slid into home.
Like you just run to a
base, and get your legs,
and slide up to it.
>>EMERY: Did he
mention an entrance
to the inside of this vehicle?
>>ADAIR: There was
where they were.
Underneath, it was like a ramp.
You could walk up in it.
And ship's people who
were there, the cruisers,
apparently, they had
access to it for a while.
And when Allen came back,
he gets up on the boat.
And I'm up on the boat.
And we pulled the bow line
in, and we-- we leave.
We just turn around drive off.
>>EMERY: Was there
any inhabitants?
>>ADAIR: No.
By the way he was--
if he had met an alien
crew, I would know.
Allen couldn't-- he
couldn't hide that.
He would-- he was
never good at poker.
He didn't know
what a poker face--
>>EMERY: So did you ask him?
>>ADAIR: I didn't have to.
He said-- he just looked at me.
And I'm looking at him.
He said, unoccupied.
But that, it's the
way he said it.
You know, it was more
disappointment or--
it actually bothered him.
I think it bothered him because
they took the crew somewhere,
and he didn't care for that,
you know, separating the crew
from the ship.
And I just learned
to leave it alone.
He sat down on the
bow of the boat
while I'm getting the
lines in and stuff.
And the first thing he
did was pull out his pipe
and light it up, and he started
doing this with his goatee.
And he's staring.
He's doing this.
And I know something's
bothering him.
I've known him good
enough, where when
he starts doing this--
>>EMERY: Something's irritating
him, what he saw out there.
>>ADAIR: Something irritating.
He's thinking about it.
And there's something he
saw he didn't care for.
And I think it's the
crew was removed, maybe.
>>EMERY: They probably removed
the crew before he got there.
>>ADAIR: And after I get
Allen and me on board,
I pull the line in.
We turned the boat
around, and we swing out
around a little point.
And when we did that, I could
see underneath it really well.
And there was a big hump there.
And there was a ramp
down from the craft.
Which is interesting, because
you didn't see any seams
or lines anywhere else.
So I'm wondering how
that ramp came down,
but I wasn't close
enough to see.
But that's how they were
getting in and out of it.
And--
>>EMERY: Could you
see the inside at all?
>>ADAIR: No, nothing.
Other than it was not dark.
You know, like a-- the ramp
goes up into a dark void.
No, there was some
kind of light in there.
>>EMERY: Did the ramp
have a stairwell,
or was it just more
of a flat ramp?
>>ADAIR: It was a--
it looked like it had ribs.
So they must have been
bipedal and anthropoid too,
and they just slip
on a smooth ramp.
And that wasn't
something we put on.
It was part of the
deck of the ramp.
But Allen's just
sitting there on the bow
out there, bobbing up
and down, doing his pipe
and smoking a
storm up out there.
Something was bothering him.
>>EMERY: Did he ever
mention about us having
the ability to shoot down UFOs?
>>ADAIR: Yes, we
talked about that.
He made a passing remark.
He said, you know,
it doesn't bode
very well about
a group of people
when you come to visit them,
the first thing they do,
you stick your foot outside
and draw back a stump.
Because we chewed it
off or ate it off.
And he said we're--
he just thought we
were very hostile
as a race toward other species.
So Allen was always,
very cautious.
And he said if he ever meant
an alien race, first thing I
would say to them,
be careful with us.
Don't turn your back on us.
>>EMERY: Apologize
ahead of time.
>>ADAIR: Yes, ahead of time.
But that's the way Allen was.
And we never spoke
too much about it,
but he knew that this
made a big impact on me.
That's the first real
hardware, nuts and bolts
thing that I ever saw in
the whole five months.
And it was-- that one day
was worth the whole thing.
>>EMERY: Did he ever tell you
anything about the Philadelphia
Experiment?
>>ADAIR: You know, we
had to talk about that.
And Allen and I had a
good talk about Tesla.
Because Tesla is really
the cause of what
happened with Philadelphia.
They brought Tesla in.
And they wanted him
to phase shift a ship.
Now--
>>EMERY: And that
was for-- to block--
>>ADAIR: Well, why can
you see me right now?
I'm sitting here in the studio.
The white lights are hitting me.
I'm a solid mass.
I'm blocking the white light.
It outlines me, and
that's how you see me.
OK?
Well, the idea is you've
got a ship on a horizon,
you can see that thing.
It looks like one of
those little rubber ducks,
bing, bing, it goes
back and forth.
Except when you
hit one of these,
they just sink and
lose the whole crew.
Well, the Navy don't--
believe me, the Navy's
not happy with that.
So what the idea was is
phase shift the ship,
where it would no longer
block white light.
And if it does that,
it's disappeared,
but it's still sitting there.
And they can still be
on it, looking at you,
but you can't see them.
>>EMERY: Because it's
shifting in and out.
>>ADAIR: Yes, it's
a phase shift.
And Tesla came up with
the idea that if you
wrap the ship in coils, he could
get the phase shift to occur,
and the ship would
just disappear.
Well, once he got
all the work done,
Tesla did, they threw Tesla out.
Which is, [LAUGHS] it's crazy.
And Allen agreed.
You know, you don't throw away
the professor in the middle
of the experiment.
And Tesla warned the Navy.
He said, if you don't get
your power settings right
on this thing, it will get away
and get out control real fast.
And Tesla said,
you'll hit an area
that you know nothing about,
and that would be time travel.
Nobody knew in this
experiment what
they were doing once
you threw Tesla away.
Well, the Navy fires it up.
And as always, instead of--
crank it up to the max, boys.
Let's see what happens.
>>EMERY: Throw down the switch.
>>ADAIR: They do.
And they crank it up.
And the ship phased
out of sight.
It sure did.
It did more than
phase out of sight.
It phased out, gone.
And it went-- apparently, it got
thrown into a time warp or loop
or whatever you call the thing.
But the thing appeared, and
they were doing this way back.
I think in 1940.
The thing showed up
in 1985, in a harbor.
And they-- and there was
even a picture taken of it.
And then it showed up
at different places,
different times.
And Tesla said there's other
dangers with this stuff.
When things are phasing,
the molecular structure
will get soft, not so rigid.
And then when a--
the ship showed up again, they
found some of the crew people,
they were embedded in the
floor and in the walls.
And some of them
were still alive.
God knows what that felt like.
But the Navy didn't
listen to him.
They should have
listened to the boy.
>>EMERY: So this
phasing, you would say,
is part of time travel.
>>ADAIR: Yeah because, somehow
Tesla, he was onto time travel,
but he really didn't--
a lot of the experiments
didn't have the big time travel
stuff in it.
He said it was so
unstable to work with.
What it was, was--
Tesla was really smart.
He knew that we were
operating outside our--
>>EMERY: Our realm of
knowledge of the science?
>>ADAIR: Yes.
We were outside the envelope.
We were going to have problems.
And boy, they had nothing but
problems with the Philadelphia
Experiment.
Ultimately, it just
kind of faded away,
and everybody let go of it,
because it's out of control.
Just what he said would happen.
And Hynek understood all--
he got all this stuff,
even better than I did.
He said that the UFOs
would do the same thing.
That they would phase.
And he said, people
say they blink out.
He said, they're actually
moving through dimensions.
And he said that the two
were tied at the hip.
And you know what would
have been so cool?
I would have loved to
have been in a room
with Hynek and Tesla talking.
Man, I would have ran a recorder
on that group of those two.
Because there would have
been some interesting stuff,
because they were way
smarter than I was.
But if people think this stuff
is made up, and none of it
ever existed, I'm here to
tell you, that's not so.
Stuff is real.
>>EMERY: Right.
Well, a lot of people think
that these disks and things
are time travel devices.
And what do you
think about that?
>>ADAIR: Possible?
Absolutely.
>>EMERY: I mean, they
have to be, right?
>>ADAIR: Yes.
And just looking at
that disk on the beach,
this thing was built
somewhere else.
And NASA, it was way
beyond their technology.
This thing was way outside
our technological envelope,
the way it was manufactured.
Another thing, not a seam,
not a weld line, nothing.
>>EMERY: Seamless.
Right.
>>ADAIR: Absolutely.
Top and bottom.
How do you do that?
And this was the early '70s.
We didn't have
anything like that.
>>EMERY: Well, thank you,
Dave, for coming on the show.
That's an amazing
story you have.
>>ADAIR: Glad to be here.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith.
Until next time.
[THEME MUSIC]